To have some items below our summary card, I'll first of all add a SizedBox with a height of 10 to have
some spacing and then add a ListView here, which should render all the items in our cart.
Now you learned that a ListView directly inside of a column doesn't work
but all we have to do is wrap it with an expanded widget which ensures that we take as much space as
is left in this column, instead of as much space as you can get and then use our ListView in here.
Now we could have an infinite amount of cart items, so I'll use ListView.builder here to build this
for potential performance improvements
and as you learned, that takes two important things - the item count and the itemBuilder.
Now the item count needs to know how many items we have in our cart,
conveniently I have access to the cart here, thanks to provider of,
so down there, we just need cart.itemCount and the way I set this up,
this simply gives us the amount of items.
If you use the different logic here, where you summed up the quantities, then of course you can't use
your item count getter and instead, here you would have to use items.length, right?
So that is in the end the logic you want to have here, items.length.
Now besides the item count, we need the itemBuilder which builds us the list entries here and there, we
get context and we get the index and we need to return the widget that should be built for every item
in the cart.
Now we could do this in line but just as with the product item in the product grid, I'll add a
cart_item.dart file in the widgets folder and in there, create a new stateless widget which is our cart item and
that's the item I want I build. For that,
let's import material.dart from the Flutter package and let's now define how such a cart item should
look like. As always, your imagination is the limit here,
you can build this however you want,
I will simply create a couple of cards, so every cart item will be in a card, around that card I want
to have some margin
and now here I'll use symmetric margin distribution, which means I want to have different margins left
and right and top and bottom. So horizontally, I want to have a margin of 15 which matches the margin
I set up for my summary card up there in the cart
screen and vertically, I want to have a margin of only 4,
so between my different cart items now. Now the child in that cart will be a padding, so to set up some
padding inside of the cart where I use EdgeInsets.all 8 and then the child of the padding is the
actual content for each cart item
and there, I'll simply use a ListTile
but of course you can use any widget or any structure you want there,
you can build your own row, column, container, whatever you need. Here in my ListTile, at the beginning,
I want to have the sum for this cart item we're displaying and I want to display one list item for every
product we have in the cart and then show its price and its quantity. So here, I'll use a CircleAvatar
again to display the information about the price with an escaped dollar sign and then some interpolation
and now that's simply some data which I expect to get in this cart item. There,
we will need a couple of pieces of information, we'll need to get the ID of that cart item, we'll need
to get the price, we'll need to get the quantity and we'll probably also need the title of the product.
So cart item will of course have a constructor, again with named or positional arguments where all these
things, all these pieces of information need to be provided
and I'm going with a positional constructor here. Now with this configured down there, I of course simply
want to refer to my price and therefore since it's only one word, we don't need the curly braces and to
string is called automatically there. Now as a title, I want to show the title of the product,
so another text widget where I simply refer to title and as sub-title, we could calculate a total price
which automatically is quantity times the price. So we could have a text in here where we say total, then
an escaped dollar sign to really print a dollar sign and then with string interpolation,
calculate the total amount for this item and that will simply be the price times the quantity,
right?
Let's wrap this into parentheses here and last but not least, as a trailing element here, I'll just output
the quantity we have so that we can also see that, another text widget where I simply want to output the
quantity and then an x to show it as a multiplicator sign.
So this is how a cart item could look like, how my cart item will look like. In a cart screen,
we can now use that, so in cart screen, let's import from the widgets folder the cart_item.dart file
and with that imported, it's the cart item I want to return in the builder down there.
So in the itemBuilder here, we can return the cart item
and of course, we now have to pass all that data into cart item which we are expecting there,
so ID, price, quantity and title.
That is what we expect here,
that is what we need to pass in.
Of course, you could now also set up a provider for every cart item if that would be a standalone listenable
provided class in your app which it isn't for me, cart item here doesn't have a ChangeNotifier. We could
of course provide it without that but do you really need to do that actually?
I'm fine with having my cart item which simply receives the data I want to pass in here because
here in cart screen of course, we do have our cart and there, we do have the cart items and therefore
in here, I can simply pass in cart items for the given index.id and then repeat the same for the,
what's the second thing cart item takes?
The price, quantity and title, so price, quantity, title.
So here, I can then access the price and then also cart items
quantity
and last but not least, the title.
Now we have one issue here, cart item is now a name I use twice. Here in the cart.dart file, in providers,
I have a cart item class and here, the cart_item.dart file,
I also have a cart item class. Now in my cart screen, I'm importing both, I importing my providers
cart.dart file which has one cart item and I'm importing my cart_item.dart file which has the other one.
Now in such cases, there are a couple of solutions, you could add as here and name this ci for example
and that would be a prefix which you could now use.
So now you would use here
ci.cartItem and now Dart would be able to know from which file you want to use cart item,
so using a prefix is one option.
Or maybe you only need one feature of a file in another file and that's the case here,
from cart.dart, I'm not interested in the cart item in my cart screen,
instead in the cart screen, I'm only interested in the cart class, which is part of the cart.dart file.
Oh man, that are many cards but I'm only interested in this class here in my cart.dart file in the cart
screen file.
So here, we can use the show keyword
and then let Dart
know that we're only interested here in cart and it won't import the cart item from the cart.dart file
and therefore, it will only import it from the cart_item.dart file
and we avoid that name clash. With that, let's do a full refresh and let's see whether that works.
Let's add the trousers and the red shirt to the cart,
go to the cart screen and I get an error, the getter ID was called on null.
Now the total seems to be good but what's wrong with the ID here which I execute on cart items?
It's a subtle error and it's related to the fact that cart items here of course refers to our map, right?
In the cart
class items which we return here with the items getter is a map. Now here,
I'm actually interested in the values which are stored in that map. Hence here on cart items, you can
access a values property which gives you an iterable which you can convert to a list
and now that's actually the list of values we need here on which we can then access the i'th element.
So that's actually what I want to extract here,
values to list on my cart items so that I operate on a list of values, so that I only work with
the concrete values stored in a map
and now there, I'll then have ID and so on available.
So with that if we go back to the app and we now start adding items to the cart again, now we can see
them here. Now to fit the labels or the prices here into our circle avatars,
let's go to the cart item, to the widget there and then in CircleAvatar, we can of course wrap that text
with FittedBox which should ensure that this actually fits in there.
So now if I add a couple of items to the cart, this looks better and now we're squeezing this into our
CircleAvatar.
We can also see, here we see the individual price,
here we see the sum,
the title, the quantity. That looks decent to me,
obviously you can always fine tune this to your likings.
I'm happy with this,
maybe we add some padding around this text here.
So around that FittedBox, let's add a new widget padding here with padding set to EdgeInsets.all 10
maybe,
I think that's too much,
let's go with 5 and now if we give that a try,
yes
now that looks even better.
So now we have this setup here which works for me,
let's next make sure that we can actually also swipe here to remove items from the cart.